[Music]
I've been getting a lot of requests to
start posting actual gameplay in
addition to my usual character build
guides and tear lists so today I thought
I'd share a thought of an old
playthrough I did back during the
Cretaceous expansion I'll be discussing
my choices and actions as they come up
so hopefully this will give you a sense
not only of how the dinosaur meta really
played out but maybe even give you some
strategy ideas for your current
playthrough even though many of the
builds featured in this pod have either
been banned or severely nerves if people
end up enjoying the style of video I
might do some more maybe even show you
all which builds I'm running in the
Anthropocene meta anyways that's enough
introduction so here we are running a
rather atypical dinosaur build called
Dino Kairos a quick look at my stats
shows that despite the fact that I'm not
playing as a carnivore I'm actually
running a much more offensive build that
you might expect
I suspect into powerful claws which will
hopefully be enough to deter predator
players my intelligence that isn't too
spectacular but it's enough to give me
access to the parental instincts trait
which is super useful for completing the
main quest for those who don't know the
main quest in any playthrough of the
game is to reproduce and parental
instincts can help you earn bonus
evolution points in exchange for giving
your offspring care and protection
that's endgame stuff though right now
using my solid perception abilities I've
detected a pack of Tarbosaurus players
who appear to be looking for PvP as you
can probably see I've had trouble
dealing with peak heirs in the past even
though I survived my previous encounter
the wound ended up giving me a pretty
severe debuff to my max HP so instead
trying to take this clan Tarbosaurus on
this time I'm gonna try a more invasive
strategy it'd be really nice if my
teammates would get their act together
since if we actually all grouped up we'd
be able to mount a defense potentially
strong enough to repel these predator
players but unfortunately you never
really can count on your teammates in
this game so for now it looks like my
only real option is to escape I wish I
had time to level up just a few more
times because right now my base speed
stat is lower than it needs to be I've
got a high enough endurance stat that
these Tarbosaurus will run out of
stamina long before I do but
unfortunately they're closing the
distance far too quickly that to be a
relevant factor thankfully the leading
Tarbosaurus player misses both of his
attacks here
one final chance to escape good keep
running but obviously they'll eventually
land an attack in this case the fact
that I'm next to a cliff gives me a very
risky option one that's basically only
preferable when the alternative is
certain death at the java source
planning the farm felt serious damage
and also you flicked a temporary sauna
me but thankfully the deinocheirus build
has high enough base HP that even in my
already moderately damaged state I could
still tank the damage the same fall
would probably deal lethal damage to at
harbor source build though so it looks
like they decided to go after my
teammates instead i alway go help them
but first of all it looks like I'm too
late and second of all it's their fault
for leaving them behind in the first
place my goal now is to try to heal and
to grind for XP to level up my main
quest is still to reproduce but short
term once again it's probably more
important that I focus on survival in
only a few more levels i unlock the
mating ability which is the first real
step in finishing the reproduction quest
so hopefully it won't take too long to
get the XP required to level up here we
are in the forest biome which is one of
the best places to be if you are trying
to grind for XP because of my characters
long reaching arms I can access loot
that other players can't give me a
pretty sweet advantage when it comes to
the grind unfortunately leaves are
pretty poor XP per hour so even with
this advantage it'll still take me a
while but at least I'll replenish on my
lost health in the process this is
pretty crucial sense in ambush even from
a weaker player could cost me the game
when my health is this low
it's important to run stealth checks on
your surroundings every so often so
enemy players can't easily sneak up on
you advanced perception abilities can
aid in this but my character doesn't
have any of those still I've detected a
Protoceratops burrowing nearby this
player doesn't seem too territorial and
even if it was it wouldn't pose too much
of a threat to me since it's in a lower
weight class than I am I'm not a big fan
at the Protoceratops build since it
relies on the burrowing trait and
herding behavior to avoid attacks this
means it's pretty vulnerable when
grinding for XP and forces you to rely
on your teammates which as I've said
before can be pretty hit or miss it
looks like both of us are just trying to
grind XP at the nearby lake so no sense
initiating any sort of combat right now
at the lake a quick stuff check reveals
nearby players and gives us a pretty
good sense of the local meta we've got a
typical mobility / evasion based bills
like Ava - the tank builds like the
titanosaur and whackier more niche
builds like the house character a diving
build whose techniques pioneered many of
the modern water fowl builds of today's
meta anyways now that my characters
thirst leader is topped up and I'm no
longer in danger of incurring
dehydration penalties I think it's time
I demonstrate one of the Dyna kairos
builds main advantages so far I haven't
really done a good job showing why
bipedalism is such a great trait my
characters four limbs were shown earlier
as being useful for reaching the leaves
and branches that would normally be out
of range but four limbs can be used for
much more than that
you can probably guess they'd be great
in combat too even though I opted to
flee from those Tarbosaurus players
however they can also be used for
fishing I got pretty lucky here
connecting my attack on the fish since
if I'd missed my stuff advantage would
be gone and the other fish players would
have probably all scattered fish are
worth way more XP than leaves are so
design a kairos build being omnivorous
and having the ability to actually catch
fish really does set this build apart
from other more basic bipedal herbivores
it levels up much quicker because of
this elevated XP rate and that's why I'm
even a little required to unlock the
mating ability that about wraps up most
of the objectives that I had for the
short term
I've replenished my health filled my
hunger and thirst meters and leveled up
so it's time to start the next section
of my quest
[Music]
one of the more controversial things
about the reproduction quest line is
that in order to start it you generally
have to waste a few evolution points on
unlocking cosmetics esthetic buffs like
more colorful feathers
don't have much of an impact on gameplay
but the sad fact is that since the
mating ability requires cooperation with
another player and because your
offspring stats are determined by the
average between your character stats and
your partner's character it's generally
a good idea to find a partner who can
afford to waste a few evolution points
on pointless cosmetic upgrades since
this means they probably already have
stats that were good enough to get them
this far in their playthrough this
player here has wasted their evolution
points on blue feathers a pretty
expensive cosmetic upgrade meaning
they'd make a great choice to complete
this part of the quest if this player is
also working on their mating quest line
they might pick my character as a
partner in which case they'll activate
their mating display ability
looks like that's exactly what's going
on so if I want to accept his request I
have to also activate my mating display
ability which initiates the rhythm game
portion of the quest
[Music]
it's pretty short and once it's over the
quest objectives should update
automatically saying that I've completed
that portion of the pre-production quest
for players who chose a male character
the reproduction quest actually ends
here it's much easier and can be
completed an unlimited amount of times
per playthrough but it's worth far fewer
evolution points than the females quest
is players with female characters have
to actually ensure that their offspring
hatch and reached the age of
independence in order to complete the
quest since my character is female
unfortunately this means the difficulty
of this quest will only increase from
here on out starting with the long
grueling objective defense section to
complete this section all I technically
have to do is make sure I spend at least
80% of my game time on the objective
this ensures the eggs get incubated and
hatched with normal based stats and no
congenital debuffs this sounds simple
but it gives you very little time to
forage for food work to keep your health
and stamina topped up I should probably
mention one of this builds traits that I
haven't touched on yet
feathers most players the student
feathers are only useful for those who
feature the flight ability prominently
in their play style but their usefulness
in that regard wasn't discovered until
later in the Early Cretaceous meta most
play respect into feathers because they
grant an incubation time bonus
shortening the duration of the objective
defense portion of the quest one of the
toughest parts of this quest line is
that even the slightest lapse in
vigilance can cost you greatly here's
some Raptor players were scouting my
nest and since I'm not part of a herd
they saw my eggs as an easy target
my perception abilities were plenty
effective not to detect them from far
away so they didn't get a stealth drag
on me or anything
in fact I detected them from far enough
away that if I needed to flee I probably
could have escaped unfortunately I'm not
playing deathmatch right now and I would
lose automatically if I just fled it and
let the Raptors capture the point
perfect time to demonstrate how powerful
of donek irises arms and claws really
are my first attack connects perfectly
and watch laughter then I get a grab on
the second Raptor and take him out with
a back throw i with my next slash attack
home after Raptor but cancel it into a
weaker backhand and if I was playing at
my best time to use that stun time to
try to take off the final enemy but I
got a little greedy and tried to finish
the third Raptor off first this left the
fourth rapper take the objective for a
brief moment I noticed my mistake pretty
quickly and used an intimidate move to
retake the objective but unfortunately I
lost one of my eggs meaning I can't get
the 100% completion achievement on this
playthrough that's alright though
hatching 39 of 40 X is still worth a ton
of points I managed to not get attacked
at all during the rest of the objective
defense section of the quest now begins
the hardest part of the game the escort
mission after finishing with incubation
the new players spawn in with stats
randomized mostly between my own stats
and whatever stats that male dinah
kairos build head there's also a chance
that the mutation effect will occur
which would let us that get randomized
outside of his normal potential range
but there's no way of controlling that
[Music]
anyways in this section of the quest you
have to keep your own low-level
teammates alive until they level up
enough to be able to survive on their
own
some builds can survive on their own
even at level one but most dinosaur
bills need at least a bit of early game
protection this part can take a while so
I'm going to skip some of the boring
parts okay so at this point my brood is
only a few XP away from becoming
self-sufficient just got to feed them
one more time and boom there we go
they're starting to level up it was at
this point that I got really unlucky
a tarbosaurus player detected my party
and charged us and if I try to flee it
will kill all of my offspring enough to
start the entire quest over again so
I've got to stand and fight the turbo
sir whoever lives there first bite
attack but catches it into a headland
knocking us both over and I retaliate
with a bite of my own and a flurry of
swipes the light does very little damage
and the swipes miss he goes for another
bite and I try to push him away
unfortunately he's able to resist a
devastating bite on me dealing damage
equal to well over a third of my mouth
and inflicting the bleed status effect I
push him off me which gives me an
opening as he's recovering which I used
to get my first few solid swipes he
counters with another head batch to
knock me over and then follows up with
other fighters doing nearly lethal
damage however once I mash out of his
grip I let my sensitivity a critical
slash which both deals tons of damage
and knocks over including me the chance
to follow up and counter his get up
attack with another swing and then the
combo that into a body slam I go for one
final roar and break his nerve and he
flees by successfully defending my party
everyone in my party gets an XP bonus
causing my group to level up to the
point of self-sufficiency and just in
time too because the bleeding effect of
the bike essentially wipes out my last
sliver of HP having successfully
finished the reproduction quest I get
the good ending to the game rack up a
ton of evolution points and actually
came pretty close to outright winning a
1v1 with a fully leveled giant carnivore
all in all great run this experimental
type of video was made possible by
curiosity stream and sourced its footage
from their brand new documentary amazing
dinoworld amazing Dino world is a
fascinating glimpse into the lives of
dinosaurs of the past featuring top
level depictions of creatures like Dino
kairos Troodon Mosasaurus Spinosaurus
and tyrannosaurus if you want to watch
the full thing great news
I've secured all of my viewers a full
month free trial of curiosity stream all
you need to do is sign up at curiosity
stream comm slash tears you or click the
link in the description and the
subscription after that is only 3 bucks
a month which is a phenomenal deal given
that they drop awesome you documentaries
all the time and that you can watch all
of those nostalgic old paleontology
documentaries like Walking with
Dinosaurs oh and some of you may already
know this but this video has actually
been viewable on nebula since last
December
it's a nebula original I'll be making
more exclusive nebula originals this
month which I don't want any of you to
miss so how can you join nebula you
might ask well great news it actually
comes bundled absolutely free with all
new signups to curiosity stream so like
I said before you 100% want this
membership if you're at ears you fan
since not only do you get access to a
huge library of Awesome documentaries
you'll also get to see my exclusive
videos early so like I said head to
curiosity stream
slash tears you two get started now
thanks again for watching and I'll see
you next time
[Music]